I am working on a binary classification problem to predict whether the product (bank term deposit) would be ("yes") or not subscribed ("no").

The dataset comes from the UCI Machine Learning Repository, which is related to direct marketing campaigns of a Portuguese banking institution. The marketing campaigns were based on phone calls. Often, more than one contact to the same client was required, in order to access if the product (bank term deposit) would be ('yes') or not ('no') subscribed. The objective is to predict whether a client will subscribe (1/0) to a term deposit (variable y). The input features described the background of a customer, e.g. education, job, the time of the phone call, e.g. month, day_of_week, duration of the call, and other information.

Since the data is the real data of a Portuguese banking institution, so this project can have very immediate and direct application potentials in the banking institution. The model can predict the probability that potential customers will buy the product. Thus it can be used as a filter to pick up these customers with higher probability to subscribe to the term deposit. Thus, we can improve the efficiency of employees and attract more customers. It can help banks to decide what to do next after the phone call, too. For example, if a customer didn't subscribe the product after the last phone call but is predicted to be very probable to do it, the bank should give them a call again in a good time.

Then, we can extract the characteristics of these customers with higher deposit rate, that is to say, this project can provide an outline of the target customers of the bank. For example, we can tell this bank is more popular in student, teachers and so on. Thus the project can help the banks to understand their target costumers better so that they can adjust their strategies to provide better service to their target customers. Last but not least, banks can analyze why they are more popular in some populations while not popular in other populations. So that this project can help them to find out the problems in their business and service, which will be essential for banks to increase their customers and profits. 

Besides the immediate application in the banking institutions, this project will be a good example of how to resolve a binary classification problem, which is a very common problem in machine learning and has very wide applications in the market.

I finished the unitary and binary analysis. I found the target classes are imbalanced, and the ratio of no-subscription to subscription instances is 89:11. Thus over-sampling is necessary to balance the dataset. The bar images present how the probability of subscription depends on the education, job and the month of the call. I found that the bank is pretty popular in students and retired persons, the people with higher education are more likely to subscribe their product and subscription sells better in Oct., Sep., Mar., and Dec.

Finally, I used the logistic regression to model the data and predict the subscription. Figure 2 shows the AOC curve of the model. The accuracy is 0.85, which is impressed considering this is only the preliminary results. The logistic regression picked up the 20 most important features, e.g. cons.price.idx, emp.var.rate and so on.

